----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 23
TITLE: Two-Party State Channels with State Assertions
AUTHORS: Chris Buckland and Patrick McCorry

Overall evaluation: 1 (weak accept)
Reviewer's confidence: 3 ((medium))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
The paper describes an implementation of a scalable distributed computation by relegating computation to proposers and verifiers, who propose new state and verify its correctness by using an off-chain protocol. The paper is hard to read and understand its correctness, but seems plausible based on their empirical case-study (a battleship game). Most of the paper involves code for an example contract (figure 1) and its detailed explanation. With a bit of rewriting and some game-theoretic analysis, the paper could be turned into something understandable and potentially influential in suggesting new paradigms. As it is, it seems rather weak.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 23
TITLE: Two-Party State Channels with State Assertions
AUTHORS: Chris Buckland and Patrick McCorry

Overall evaluation: 2 (accept)
Reviewer's confidence: 4 ((high))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
The article present a protocol
that can help resolve disputes
that might emerge between two
parties trading off--blockchain.
The protocol relies on a smart
contract running on--blockchain
that operates as a trusted party
that is called by a party that
feels offended by its counterpart
actions.
The protocol operates in a lock-step
execution model.


Strengths of the paper:
======================
1) It discusses a topic that directly relevant to
   the WTSC'19.

2) The paper is well-written and supported
by a proof of concept implementation work.
Implementation is very briefly discussed in
section 4  which covers Future work--this
suggests that the implementaion is at a
very early stage--fine with me for a
a short workshop paper.

Weaknesses of the paper:
========================
The following observations might help
to improve the paper:

The paper suffer from some inaccuracies:
p1: "Cryptocurrencies do not scale." I would change it
to "Blockchain-based cryptocurrencies do not scale",
and keep in mind that cryptocurrencies predate
blockchains:
a) https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fgroups.csail.mit.edu%2Fmac%2Fclasses%2F6.805%2Farticles%2Fmoney%2Fnsamint%2Fnsamint.htm&amp;data=01%7C01%7Cpatrick.mccorry%40kcl.ac.uk%7C2e926dac83c14d3a122608d6864003af%7C8370cf1416f34c16b83c724071654356%7C0&amp;sdata=CppST4UO5BrHCkyGKvMfG9AjKfAzfMQFjYevPWwDK4k%3D&amp;reserved=0
b) See b-money link at https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.weidai.com&amp;data=01%7C01%7Cpatrick.mccorry%40kcl.ac.uk%7C2e926dac83c14d3a122608d6864003af%7C8370cf1416f34c16b83c724071654356%7C0&amp;sdata=EE%2BuRFs9%2BLFb4ux1sLTeTDkv4Ttz2Lnkee5nCii9tEo%3D&amp;reserved=0
c) Money in electronic commerce: digital cash,
         electronic fund transfers, and Ecash, Patiwat Panurach
   Communications of the ACM, v39, n6, jun 1996.


p2: trades the cost of computation with time: I would say, FOR
"I'll trade you some of my chocolate for some of your ice cream."
p2: one party submits the application’s state: I would include
    the direct object (to whom is the application state
    submitted). In my view, the old tradition of omitting
    indirect objects and nouns in English sentences does
    not help in technical writing.
    It produces vague sentences that leave the
    reader guessing the missing pieces.

    I'd consider my comment to improve the first para of
    Section 2 and 3.1.

    Also the authors might like to explain where
    is the smart contract and the dispute process running;
    describe the scenario (how many parties are there,
    , a Fig might help.
    To save space, the authors might like to delete the five
    lines between 3 and 3.1: that summary about what is
    comming is useful in large documents (say a chapter
    of 40 pages), but not strictly necessary in a 6page
    doc.


p2: then the bond is used: I'd say "a bond", rather than
    "the bond".

p3: "an honest party can always continue an application’s execution by"
    Does the parties have and run a replica of the AC?
    I wouldn't be asking this question if the scenario
    was included in 3.1.

p3: We assume it is a turn-based: I would change that to
    We assume that the parties execute
    a turn-based application ....
p3: application and each party: change "and" to "where".
    I would mention one or two examples of a turm--based application.

p4: contract is stateless and the state must be supplied: change
    "and" to "consequently".

p4: If out-of-gas exceptions were permitted by an application,
    then it can be leveraged to prevent an honest user challenging..:
    re-write the sentence, the Eng is broken
    ( it can be lev...)


p5: Triggering dispute:
"In general, a dispute must be triggered if the counterparty
stops honestly following the protocol (i.e. aborts and stops
responding)":  In my view, in practice disputes emerge
from several situations. Examples  1)party A considers
that he sent a payment within the deadline period whereas
party B receives that payment after the expiry of the
deadline (say, 'cos of a network delay or clock
de-synchronization, clock skew); 2) a party A tries
to progress to stateP when party B expects
progress to stateQ; 3) party A  tries to evercharge
party B, 4) party A (the deliver) delivers the item
to the wrong address and tries to progress to
the next state whereas party B (the purchaser) is still i
waiting for the item, and so on.

I wonder, can the authors explain how they map all
these and other situations into "abort" and
"stop responding"? It seems to be that it is possible, but
it would be good if they could elaborate on that.

Also, can they explain how a party can dintinguish
"abort" from "not responding" when for example
A is waiting from a message from B and the message does
not arrive. I wonder, isn't "not responding" enough?
why do they need "abort" as well?

p6: opportunities: I'd say, alternatives
p6: The second requires one party to submit hstatei via
    SC.assertState() and for the honest party to continue the
    application’s execution by asserting the next hstatei+1
    via SC.assertState().
    ...: To make the sentence readable, I would say, the
    "offending party", the "honest party", "the initiating
    party", "the responding party":, rather than
    "first party", "second party".

p6: Motivation for turn-based commands
The explanation makes sense, yet, I wonder about the
scope of this model, what applications can it cover?
There is a large class of applications that can be
implemented as lock-step progress (which is very
simple and useful) applications, but I guess, not all
of them.

p7: benefits the attacker: Can the authors explain
    who the attacker is?

p7: relies a watching: change that to "relies on a watching ..."

p7: Extending to N-parties: I'd clarify in the Introduction
that the protocol discusssed in this paper is a two-party
protocol. Yes, it is in the title, but it it would be good
to clarify it in the Intro rather than in the last page. I'd
just cut and past some of the lines from this paragraph
to the Intro.


p7: The paper could be enhanced with a paragraph (in the
absence of a explicit Related Work section) explaining the main
difference between the discussed protocol and PISA.
What is the main difference: the turn-based model, with room
for raising dispute concerns immediately after the 
execution of each step? The absence of a watching service?
A clarification of these question would add to the paper--I think.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 23
TITLE: Two-Party State Channels with State Assertions
AUTHORS: Chris Buckland and Patrick McCorry

Overall evaluation: -1 (weak reject)
Reviewer's confidence: 2 ((low))

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
his paper describes an approach to reducing the burden of smart
contract execution on cryptocurrency networks such as Ethereum which
could help to mitigate current scalability problems in Ethereum if
other smart contract writers adopted their approach.

The approach described is based on the technique of state channels
where computation is modelled as a state transition system and
participants post consecutive copies of the state on to the chain but
computation is carried out off-chain. The paper proposes to improve in
existing schemes by posting hashes of the state onto the chain instead
of the full state. Thus reducing gas cost.

Issues with the presentation:

The paper describes an ethereum smart contract that is included in an
appendix/figure and also linked in a footnote, although these two
versions don't really match.

The paper is a bit rough and various things have been omitted due to
lack of space, I wonder whey the author didn't write a full paper
instead of a short one.

I found the paper hard to read and it makes various puzzling over
general or over specific claims or even both a the same
time. E.g. giving cost savings in dollars in the abstract without
mentioning which platform is used. Later in section 2 it is revealed
that we are talking about Ethereum.

There are a lot of typos and some garbled sentences and the paper
would benefit from careful proof reading.

The version of the contract in the paper is quite different to the
version linked in pastebin. It wasn't clear to me what the
connection. I wondered if the design of the version linked to online
has evolved since submission. But, this makes it hard to understand
the paper as the version in the paper is incomplete.

Another jarring problem with the narrative is that the program appears
in an appendix but the code is described in detail throughout the
technical sections of the paper. I think it would be better if the
code was presented inline and explained nearby one fragment at a time.

Issues with the content:

It is a nice feature that the author clearly marks out what the
assumptions are, this is very helpful. However, one of the assumptions
is that the computation doesn't raise exceptions or out-of-gas
errors. Otherwise the scheme is not secure.

The paper describes a approach to combining on chain and off chain
code to achieve a solution but the off chain code is barely described
and not shown.

Results of an expirement are described but not in sufficient
detail. Eg. The precise program used is not really mentioned.

Conclusion:

The content is interesting but the presentation would benefit from
further work and I think the paper should not be accepted in its
current form.

Minor issues:
abstract:

talks about cryptocurrencies in general, but gives a specific costs in dollars.

Intro.
"Cryptocurrencies do not scale" over general
"three approaches" really just 3?
"computatonal"
"miner's"

"clostly"
"progressed withing"
"have to made"
"complex progressions"

"experimentally demonstrate" how?

figure 1 is an appendix...
it bares very little resemblence to the code linked in the footnote.

"relies a watching service"
